One of the questions that often comes
up when building a data science team,
is whether you should build a stand-alone
data science group all on it's own, or
whether you should embed data scientists,
one in each of a number of different
external management organizations.
So I'm gonna talk a little bit about
those two different scenarios.
In the embedded data scientist idea,
you're taking a data scientist, and
you're having them sit with say,
the marketing team, or
you're having them sit with the business
intelligence team, or you're having
them sit with a different team than
the rest of their data science colleagues.
So, there are some big advantages to this,
in particular,
they get to hear about the problems every
day that that organization is having.
It's a really great way
to promote collaboration.
It's also a little bit difficult in
the sense that they can't necessarily
communicate very well with their own or
other data scientists.
They won't be able to ask questions if
they get stuck on different problems.
So there's some difficulties as well.
On the other hand,
you could imagine setting up
a independent data science group.
So this depends a little bit on
the scale of your organization.
If you're a really small start-up
organization with only one or two people,
there's no need for a dedicated group.
But for a larger organization,
sometimes it makes sense to
have them all sit together.
The advantage here is that they'll be able
to ask questions quickly of their peers,
they'll have good support
among their peers.
The disadvantage is that they won't
necessarily be on top of all the problems
that necessarily they need to be on
top of in order to do their job and
to effectively use data for
your organization.
So the keys when making this comparison
are communication, support, and
empowerment of data scientists.
So I'm gonna take each
of these one at a time.
So the first thing I wanted to
talk about is close communication.
So, the first thing that a data scientist
needs to do to be really effective is to
be working on a concrete problem.
And those concrete problems often don't
come out of the data science team,
they often come out of another team.
Whether that's the marketing team,
or whether that's the leadership, or
some other part of the company or
organization that you are working for.
And so to have close communication, one
option is to embed the person directly in
that external unit and
have them talk to them all the time.
But another way is to make sure that the
channels of communication are open between
people in the external units and
people in the data science team.
Either way, the key component is that
the data scientist should always be aware,
what's the concrete problem
they're trying to solve?
And when they come up with solutions,
they need to know what to benchmark
against, what's success look like?
And the best way to do that is through
communication with these external units.
The next thing is support.
You need to support data scientists, and
not only support data scientists, but
that way they have the support they need
to be able to help the other people in
your organization.
So if a data scientist is
embedded in an external unit,
often they don't necessarily have
the person that they can talk to.
It can be very frustrating
to perform data science.
A lot of it is very
low-level data cleaning,
which can be a very painful,
I can tell you from experience, process.
And so the idea is you wanna be able
to have somebody that they can turn to,
that they can talk to you for
advise or support.
So that often is better in
a stand-alone data science unit.
They can actually go and
talk to other people.
But again, then there can be this insular
nature of the group being on its own.
So the last thing is empowerment.
So one thing that's very difficult about
being a data scientist in the organization
is that the data often don't
tell you what you wanna hear.
So it's very common to
run an experiment and
to get a result that goes
against the common wisdom.
Or maybe you have a great idea, a great
hypothesis, you run an experiment, and
you collect the data.
It turns out your hypothesis was wrong.
Communicating these sorts of things
to the people that had the ideas or
the external units that came up with
those projects can be very difficult.
And in particular, if those organizations
are upset or the external units
are upset about the results that came
out of the data science experience,
the data science project,
there can be a big disadvantage because
the data scientists might be incentivized
to not tell you the full truth, or
to not communicate exactly what
happened in the experiment.
So we need to empower data scientists
to be able to be confident in
reporting the results that were there.
And then to have the organization support
that and make quick decisions, even when
those decisions are not necessarily
the way that everyone would want to work.
So it's not a political process,
doing data science.
And because it's not a politic process,
that can often make the politics
very difficult for data scientists.
So I've found that the best happy
medium between the two ways of working,
whether you embed somebody out externally,
or
you have a dedicated team, is to once
you're at a scale that's useful for it,
once you have two or three people that are
doing data science within an organization,
you have them sit together in a way that
they can all communicate with each other.
They can commiserate with each other, they
can empower each other to feel good about
the decisions they're making
about what to report.
But then you make sure that
they have close contact and
continual contact with those groups.
So they might go sit for
an hour a week with some group.
Or they might go sit for
a couple hours a week with another group.
But they always have a home
base to come back to,
the data science home base,
where they can feel really supported and
they can have the right people
to ask questions about.
So as long as you can encourage the right
kind of communication and make sure that,
that doesn't become insular, that usually
tends to be the optimal arrangement,
a dedicated team with close
connections to individual groups.
And ideally, you have each person has one
external unit that they are responsible
for, or a small number of units
that they're responsible for,
so that they can develop long-term
relationships with those units and
really be effective at using data
to help optimize the organization.